Clarify "gentype" function signatures (#428)
KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs: adoc/chapters/programming_interface.adoc

host and device.

=== Description of generic type names

The functions defined in sections <<sec:math-functions>> through
<<sec::relational-functions>> are specified using a set of generic type names.
These are not actual type names available to SYCL applications.  Instead, they
are a shorthand used in this document to describe the set of overloads for
these functions.  For example the [code]#fmax# function is specified as:

[source]
----
genfloat fmax(genfloat x, genfloat y)
----

The generic type [code]#genfloat# is a stand-in for a set of a actual type
names: [code]#float#, [code]#double#, etc.  To construct the actual overloads
that are available, replace the generic type name with the name of each of
these actual types:

[source]
----
float fmax(float x, float y)
double fmax(double x, double y)
vec<float,1> fmax(vec<float,1> x, vec<float,1> y)
vec<float,2> fmax(vec<float,2> x, vec<float,2> y)
vec<float,3> fmax(vec<float,3> x, vec<float,3> y)
vec<float,4> fmax(vec<float,4> x, vec<float,4> y)
vec<float,8> fmax(vec<float,8> x, vec<float,8> y)
vec<float,16> fmax(vec<float,16> x, vec<float,16> y)
template<size_t N> marray<float,N> fmax(marray<float,N> x, marray<float,N> y)

> // etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// ...
```

Author: Added in bd1229a146abf422525dd25563865087e0d2fa1a

----

When determining the set of overloads that are available, use the following
rules:

* If the specification of a function has several occurrences of the same

>   generic type name, replace each occurrence with the same actual type.  For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  generic type name, replace each occurrence in the same overloads with the same actual type.  For
```

Author: Added in bd1229a146abf422525dd25563865087e0d2fa1a

  the same type, and the return type always matches the type of the parameters.

* The following generic type names sometimes appear together in the same
  function description:
+
--
** [code]#vfloatn#
** [code]#vdoublen#
** [code]#vhalfn#
** [code]#vint8n#
** [code]#vint16n#
** [code]#vint32n#
** [code]#vint64n#
** [code]#vuint8n#
** [code]#vuint32n#
** [code]#vuint64n#
** [code]#vfloatnptr#
** [code]#vdoublenptr#
** [code]#vhalfnptr#
** [code]#vint32nptr#
--
+
When this occurs, the replacement of the generic type names are correlated.
If one of these generic type names is replaced with a [code]#vec# of length
_Len_, then all other occurrences of these generic type names in that same
function description must also be replaced with a [code]#vec# of length _Len_.
For example, if a function takes one parameter of type [code]#vfloatn# and
another of type [code]#vfloatnptr#, there are overloads like:
+
[source]
----
func(vec<float,1>, multi_ptr<vec<float,1>, Space, IsDecorated>)
func(vec<float,2>, multi_ptr<vec<float,2>, Space, IsDecorated>)
// ...
----
+
However, there are no overloads where the two parameters have different
vector lengths.

> * Some of the generic type names can be replaced with a templated type, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some of the generic type names are replaced with a templated type, where
```
Should we be stronger here and say they **are** replaced with a template?

Author: Added in bd1229a146abf422525dd25563865087e0d2fa1a

host and device.

=== Description of generic type names

The functions defined in sections <<sec:math-functions>> through
<<sec::relational-functions>> are specified using a set of generic type names.
These are not actual type names available to SYCL applications.  Instead, they
are a shorthand used in this document to describe the set of overloads for
these functions.  For example the [code]#fmax# function is specified as:

[source]
----
genfloat fmax(genfloat x, genfloat y)
----

The generic type [code]#genfloat# is a stand-in for a set of a actual type
names: [code]#float#, [code]#double#, etc.  To construct the actual overloads
that are available, replace the generic type name with the name of each of
these actual types:

[source]
----
float fmax(float x, float y)
double fmax(double x, double y)

> template<int N> vec<float,N> fmax(vec<float,N> x, vec<float,N> y)

Reviewer 2: Is there a benefit to keep the `vec` variants as templates? Since the set of valid values for `{n}` is so limited we could just have overloads for each one.

Author: I agree that this is possible.  I did it this way because I think this is what we agreed on when we discussed internal issue 278.

One advantage to implementing the `vec` versions as many overloads is that it allows implicit conversion from `__swizzled_vec__`.  For example:

```'
vec<float, 3> v{1.0f, 2.0f, 3.0f};
fmax(v.swizzle<2, 0, 1>(), v.swizzle<0, 1, 2>());
```

The calls to `v.swizzle` above return the unnamed type `__swizzled_vec__` which is convertible to `vec<float, 3>`.  If we implement `fmax` as a template, I believe the code above won't compile because template resolution doesn't consider conversions.

If we implement `fmax` as separate overloads for all of the `{n}` possibilities, then I think the code above does compile because overload resolution does consider conversions.

There is no similar issue with `marray` because there is no type like `__swizzled_vec__` that is convertible to an `marray`.  In any event, we cannot do multiple overloads for `marray` because there aren't a fixed number of `{N}` values.

@illuhad how does hipSYCL deal with the `vec` variants of these math functions?  Is the `{n}` a template parameter or are there many different overloads for all the `{n}` possibilities?

Author: It seems like this would be visible to applications, though, so this could cause portability problems.  For example, if the spec says the synopsis is:

```
template<int N> fmax(vec<N> x, vec<N> y)
```

Then, application code might do something like this:

```
template<int N>
void foo() {
  sycl::vec<N> x;
  sycl::vec<N> y;
  fmax<N>(x, y);
}
```

This won't compile unless the implementation actually implements `fmax` with a template parameter of type `int`.

Reviewer 3: The spec should just say 1 line to rule them all:
```c++
template <typename X, typename Y> fmax(X x, Y y) -> return_t<X, Y>;
```
and just explain the conversion rule implemented under the hood and when it is valid, in a modern intensive generic way instead of in an old extensive overloaded way,
Having a special template for `int N` like
```c++
template<int N> vec<float,N> fmax(vec<float,N> x, vec<float,N> y)
```
looks like syntactic noise because it allows to write the cryptic
```c++
fmax<3>(1.f, 42.f) // returns a vfloat3 obviously o_o
```
instead of just
```c++
fmax(vfloat3 { 1.f }, 42.f) // returns a vfloat3 more naturally
``````

Author: > Is there a benefit to keep the `vec` variants as templates? Since the set of valid values for `{n}` is so limited we could just have overloads for each one.

I did this in a8bcf6296d683a377dc613a7c5bb53a2e6c3b215.

  tells the order and type of the template parameters for each possible
  combination:

** If there is a single template parameter [code]#N# (number of dimensions of
   the [code]#vec# type):
+
[source]
----
template<int N>
----

** If there is a single template parameter [code]#M# (number of dimensions of
   the [code]#marray# type):
+
[source]
----
template<size_t M>
----

** If there are two template parameters [code]#Space# and [code]#IsDecorated#
   (address space and decoration for the [code]#multi_ptr# type):
+
[source]
----
template<access::address_space Space, access::decorated IsDecorated>
----

** If there are three template parameters [code]#N#, [code]#Space# and
   [code]#IsDecorated#:
+
[source]
----
template<int N, access::address_space Space, access::decorated IsDecorated>
----

** If there are three template parameters [code]#M#, [code]#Space# and
   [code]#IsDecorated#:
+
[source]
----
template<size_t M, access::address_space Space, access::decorated IsDecorated>
----

* Unless specified otherwise, the template parameter [code]#N# is constrained
  to the values 2, 3, 4, 8, or 16.

* Unless specified otherwise, the template parameter [code]#M# is constrained

>   to a positive value.

Reviewer 4: Is this required?  If `M` is `size_t`, isn't it always unsigned?

Author: This prevents the value from being zero.

Thinking about this more, though ... maybe we don't need either of these constraints on `N` or `M`.  Presumably, the types `vec` and `marray` should have some sort of `static_assert` that their template parameter is in range.  In that case, there is no need to redundantly put the same constraint on these functions.

Reviewer 4: Oh, I see.  If you do keep these constraints, I think "M must be greater than zero" is a clearer way to say that.

But I'm in favor of removing the duplicated constraints.

Author: I removed the constraints for `N` and `M` in 1133eefba7b155f68320b0776417ed9afa337040.

* Unless specified otherwise, the template parameter [code]#Space# is
  constrained to the values [code]#access::address_space::global_space#,
  [code]#access::address_space::local_space#, or

>   [code]#access::address_space::private_space#.

Reviewer 4: Reading this again this morning... Why aren't these functions available for generic pointers?  Pointers are only ever used for return types, so it seems odd to limit the available address spaces here.

It would make sense to keep a note that `Space` cannot be `constant_space`, but we could remove that in SYCL-Next (since `constant_space` is deprecated).

Author: I noticed this too, and I was thinking of creating an issue for this.  The spec had the same limitation before my PR, and I didn't want to expand the scope of this PR to include new additions.  In addition to adding `generic_space`, I think we should consider adding new overloads that take raw pointers.

Reviewer: I have addressed this in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs/pull/432 which is rebased on this PR.

----
float fmax(float x, float y)
double fmax(double x, double y)
vec<float,1> fmax(vec<float,1> x, vec<float,1> y)
vec<float,2> fmax(vec<float,2> x, vec<float,2> y)
vec<float,3> fmax(vec<float,3> x, vec<float,3> y)
vec<float,4> fmax(vec<float,4> x, vec<float,4> y)
vec<float,8> fmax(vec<float,8> x, vec<float,8> y)
vec<float,16> fmax(vec<float,16> x, vec<float,16> y)

> template<size_t N> marray<float,N> fmax(marray<float,N> x, marray<float,N> y)

Reviewer 3: I guess it is a discrepancy compared to `vec` to solve with concepts in SYCL Next...

Author: Our thinking is that `vec` will probably go away at some point.  Once that happens, all of these overloads on `vec` can be removed.  In the meantime, most people wanted to do whatever was easiest for implementors w.r.t. `vec`, and the consensus from implementors was that adding these overloads is the easiest solution.

Reviewer 3: The problem is nit the `vec` but that the `marray` with this template is not user-friendly without deeper rework.
